The first step in our project was building our robot. We started by reviewing different project notebooks from other robot creators to get inspired and decide how we wanted ours to be. Once we had gathered various ideas, the next step was to design our robot in the Tinkercad application, considering several key factors since this model would later be 3D-printed.
Some important factors to keep in mind were:
The use and placement of the wheels.
The location of the caster wheel.
The dimensions of the robot, as these would determine whether the robot's parts needed to be glued or assembled in another way.
Once all of that was clarified, we moved on to the construction.
The second step was choosing the chassis. We initially decided to use some chassis already built by other students from previous years, but we weren’t very convinced by them. So, we decided to build the chassis from a wooden board and later, using Tinkercad, created a black base to support the board.
The third step was selecting the motors. We had two motor options, which were quite different from each other. One was longer, had less mobility in programming, and was slower. The second was smaller, allowed for better adjustment in our robot, and had faster movement. In the end, we saw that the smaller one provided better functionality for our robot, especially on the mat due to its speed. Additionally, we mounted the black plate we had designed in 3D using Tinkercad. These motors were smaller than the white ones, which worked better for the required size regulations. They were also easier to attach to the chassis since they could be screwed in or glued with silicone.
Note: The motors will be further examined in the Tinkercad notebook.
Once we had most of the structure selected, we moved on to improving our robot, which we decided to name "Lightning McQueen" after the Cars movie. Next, we designed a wooden chassis, followed by one created in Tinkercad, which featured the number 95 in reference to the Cars movie.
We had to consider the use of sensors. In our case, we used three ultrasonic sensors since we needed to detect objects and the walls of our mat to regulate our robot's turns.
We found it ideal to place the sensors in such a way that would provide better visibility when selecting objects. Therefore, we installed two sensors, one on the left and one on the right, and a central sensor.
For this, we created a base with three supports where the ultrasonic sensors would be attached. We used Tinkercad to create a chassis for the three sensors, though we only made the top part for the sensors.
The center sensor is more for decoration since it couldn’t function properly, so we plan to replace it with a camera, which we won’t be able to install due to time constraints. Instead, we will program the robot to follow the edge of the mat to avoid objects. However, we will use the left and right sensors to detect the walls of the square.
We decided to add two caster wheels at the front to improve turning.
To decorate our robot nicely, we decided to use some details from the Cars movie, such as the lightning bolt that Lightning McQueen has on the side, along with the number 95.
We also had an issue with stability. Initially, we used a portable battery for the chassis, but that made our robot unstable, so we replaced the portable battery with two regular batteries. We also added a metal bar to increase stability, but it didn’t help much, so it remained as a battery holder.
Finally, if we look at the top of the robot, we can see more details of the three sensors, the chassis with another design from the Cars movie, the metal bar used as a battery holder, our two motors, and a base created in Tinkercad to hold the Arduino board, which also had a small red breadboard connected to it.
